.TH derivative 1 "2022-03-17" "0.1" "rpn-math-package"
.SH NAME
derivative - attempts to calculate the analytical derivative of a math expression (string)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB derivative \fI x

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B derivative
will read lines with math expression from standard input
and output their derivatives to standard output. Incorrect input
(invalid math expressions) may result in a blank line in the output,
but the number of lines and line correspondence will be preserved.

Math has to be in space separated reverse Polish notation (similar to
.B dc
input). Names of functions must begin with an
.B @
symbol (e.g.
.B @exp
).

This function half-understands the idea of step functions Theta(x): {
0 if x<0; 1 if x>=0. The correct derivative of the step-function is
delta(x): { INF at x==0; and 0 everywhere else. But, delta itself
doesn't have a derivative, it cannot be curve plotted easily,
numerical integrators shouldn't receive a delta in the ODE
right-hand-side function. Generally, treating Theta(x) correctly is
not useful to us. So, instead we allow inequality operators directly:
<,>,= and their derivatives are always 0 everywhere.

.SH EXAMPLES

Basic arithmetic:
.EX
$ echo 'x y *' | derivative x
1 y * x 0 * +
.EE

Functions:
.EX
$ echo '-1 lambda t * * @exp' | derivative t
-1 lambda t * * @exp 0 lambda t * * -1 0 t * lambda 1 * + * + *
.EE
which is equivalent to: "-1 lambda t * * @exp -1 lambda * *".

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fIy\fR
the name of a variable. Derivative will be done with respect to\fI y\fR. 

.SH SEE ALSO

simplify(1), to_rpn(1), to_infix(1)
